---
layout: post
title: "The adventure game puzzle project"
tags: adventure-puzzle-solver
 -
---

In the past months I've rediscovered the joy of point & click adventures, and
while getting myself reacquainted with the genre I've found that, even though
the current commercial success of the genre is far away from it's peak in the
90s, there are still a few companies and distributors putting out great games
out there.

What I didn't remember, and it's something that anyone that has ever played an
adventure game will recognize, is the frustration that sooner or later every
game will lead you to.  Most of this frustration comes from having a very
limited pool of accepted solutions to problems (as in having the character
refuse to open a door by smashing it with an axe, and instead having to look
for God knows how long for a key), but there are also the _mathy_ puzzles,
many of which are derived from (or copies of) traditional CS problems:
N-queens, sliding blocks, knight's tour...

Solving this last class of problems usually requires some combination of
intuition, luck and perseverance (in my particular case in what seems to be
a 5%, 20%, 75% split). In fact, most of the times after solving one of those
problems the main feeling I get is not one of achievement, but of relief about
being able to go on with the game. 

So, since they are well defined problems, what about creating a program to
solve them? This way I can just worry about having a clear understanding of
the problem and let my computer sweat over finding the right solution. That's
exactly what I'll be doing over this series of posts.

In the next post I'll look at solving one of the most common and frustrating
games out there, the sliding tile puzzle.

